# ChileanCCRollCallVotes

This research project intends to analyze the internal dynamics of the Chilean Constituent Convention (2021-2022) within the broader context of the Chilean Constitutional Process (2019-2022). An argument is developed which claims that the Chilean Constitutional process failed due to the endogenously and exogenously determined procedures imposed on and adopted by the Constituent Convention. The externally and internally designed procedural architecture hindered rational, democratic and collective wisdom as well as decision-making in the context and process of drafting a Constitutional proposal. This argument will evaluate the impact of procedural characteristics on the internal dynamics and inner-workings of the Chilean Constituent Convention from a political epistemology perspective. 

In order to develop this research project, a multi-methods approach will be employed, which includes a quantitative statistical analysis of the Constitutional Convention (2021-2022). This dataset contains all of the roll cal votes casted in the Chilean Constituent Convention. The votes can be divided into two parts, a *regulatory phase* (which produced the Convention's bylaws/ Regulatory guidelines handbook) and a *substantive phase* (which produced the draft of a Constitutional proposal). The Convention was made up of 154 democratically elected delegates, and some of their information is also listed in the dataset like their district, political party affiliation, list, region, gender, age, etc. The political preferences and party/list unity will be analyzed through the spatial statistical analysis of roll call data following the IDEAL method (Clinton, Jackman, Rivers, 2004) with a Bayesian simulation procedure using Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) iterations.

The dataset has around 4500 rounds of roll call votes casted by 154 delegates in a single spreadsheet. There is brief description of the 4500 issues voted on in the first row of the dataset, and the first columns of the dataset contain key descriptive information of each of the Constituent Convention delegates. The four options for votes are yea (affirmative), nay (negative), abstention, or no vote. But the dataset was edited to binary form, so **yea** is represented by **1**, **nay** is represented by **0** and both **abstention and no vote** are represented as **blank**. 


For the mock up preliminary assignment, I attached a spreadsheet to the repository containing two sheets that both relate to how I want to analyze my data. This spreadsheet shows how I want to potentially analyze the roll call votes. The first sheet shows the data in a wide to long format in which each delegate is listed as a variable in the columns and each row is an anonymized issue that was voted on (in the regulatory phase marked by reg_1... or in the substantive phase marked by subs_1...). Ideally then, there would be information about how many affirmative votes each delegate casted but also information about the issues itself (if they passed the 2/3 quorum and by how much they did or didn't). The second sheet has drawings of this analysis. Again they are are organized by issue and by delegate. The first graph would analyze all of the votes and show by how much they passed or did not pass the 2/3 quorum. And the second graph would display how many issues each delegate passsed relative to other delegates in the regularory and in the substantive phase. 


